#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass revtex4-1
\begin_preamble

\end_preamble
\options reprint,amsmath,amssymb,aps,
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Wolff Cluster Algorithm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Thanks
A final project for the Computational Physics lecture
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Dániel Juhász
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Maximilian Mucha
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
today
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
The Ising model is a well known model of ferromagnetic materials and phase
 transitions.
 Although exact results are known for specific cases, simulating these systems
 is a highly researched topic.
 When the system is near a phase transition, successive measurements tend
 to be highly correlated, therefore extracting statistically significant
 data becomes difficult.
 In this final report we demonstrate one of the most efficient algorithms
 that can deal with this problem: the Wolff cluster algorithm.
 After testing the correctness of our implementation, we calculate the dynamical
 exponent, and compare the result with the Metropolis-Hastings method.
 We also calculate the critical temperature for the 2D and 3D Ising models.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The introduction.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Theoretical Basis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The theoretical basis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The methods.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Results
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Th results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Discussion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The discussion.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The summary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset

U.
 Wolff, “Collective Monte Carlo Updating for Spin Systems”, Phys.
 Rev.
 Lett.
 62 (1989) 361.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-2"

\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "Advanced Monte Carlo Methods notes by E. Carlon"
target "http://itf.fys.kuleuven.be/~enrico/Teaching/monte_carlo_2018.pdf"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 – Academic year 2016/2017
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
